All right.
If you're still with me.
Thank you.
Congratulations.
We've covered a lot of methods.
We have two more methods in this video and that's it for new stuff in this section.
Well then do a quick little projects where we get practice creating elements removing elements inserting
changing classes and styles and all of that stuff and then we'll move on to a new section on events
in the dome.
Now events are really the main course of Dom stuff of these Dom sections.
Events are probably the most exciting but also the missing piece that we need in order to actually make
useful applications and start to interact with our Web sites.
So two more methods and then a project then events.
So the two methods are remove and remove child and they do what they sound like.
They remove and remove an element that you pass in they follow the pattern that we saw with append child
where this was the the original way of doing it.
The older way of appending something as a child and it's supported in all browsers but there's a newer
method append that does not work in Internet Explorer.
It's a little friendlier to use and you can pass in multiple elements remove is similar.
So we have removed child which has been around much longer.
And then we have remove which does not work in i.e..
And if you go to the docs or remove child it's actually mildly confusing on NBN and you scroll down
to look at browser support compatibility unknown for i.e..
So I had a feeling this was a mistake.
Something is just wrong with with the data they have.
So on another Web site that I like called Can I use.
If you look at remove child for i.e. it's been supported in pretty much every version of IP that they
support on this Web site.
So I have no idea why MDA has a question mark there but it is supported in IP.
So to use remove child we need to find the parent of what we're trying to remove and find the item that
we want to remove.
So why don't we remove let's remove PS right here so that element is down at the very bottom.
We need to select that element which is in a well and it has a class of special.
So we need to select the UL parent and the ally let's get the parent first concept you l equals document
dot query selector and we have a couple of wells on this page but I'm going to do is select the one
inside of a section which should give us that one down there.
Let's see you Well yep that one is at the bottom.
It's the only one contained inside of a section.
Now if I want to get this one ally that has the class of special I have a couple options I could just
you document that query selector or I could search within the UL you well that query selector for the
class of special and this is easy or easier because there's only one element with the class of special
in that you well but if I instead did document that query selector we have multiple other special classes
or instances of special on the page.
So it's it's more work we would have to then say instead of a section maybe that could get it but I
like doing this version here where we search within the UL and ignore everything else.
All right.
So I'm going to save that to a variable const remove me.
How about that.
Remove me equals you well that query selector special.
So now we have that element remove me and we have the parent.
Well I can call you well remove child and I want to remove the remove me element all right.
So the pattern is the parent and then remove child and then the child.
And this child needs to be a child of the parent.
So I couldn't select this well and say that you l dot remove child of this ally.
It wouldn't work.
Also when we do remove a child it does return the removed element.
So I can save it.
I'll just call it contact deleted if you wanted to do something with it it's gone now peace is gone.
And if we look at deleted we do have a variable here that is an object.
It's the actual element that we were working with that we just removed.
It's just printing out as HMO thanks to Chrome's lovely dev tools which actually are lovely except I
hate this one feature.
And then we also have the removed method which works differently.
It does not need the parent node.
All we need to do is select the target.
The thing we want to remove and then call remove on that node on the actual item we want to remove.
So if I want to remove the h one for example I can select it content H1 equals document query selector
of H1.
There's only one on the page and I can call each one dot remove.
I don't need the parent.
If I was doing this with remove child I would have to say document up body dot remove child of H1 but
with remove it's easier.
We don't have to have the parent.
It just doesn't work in i.e. unfortunately H1 dot remove parentheses and it's gone.
That's it.
And that's pretty much it for this video.
We can remove using the remove method that we just saw we've got remove child you could do this in a
loop of course if you had a bunch of things you wanted to remove and that's kind of it.
Now we've seen how to create elements how to append them prepared them insert them before things insert
adjacent to things and remove them.